---
title: "Invoice"
---

## Introduction

The objective of this guide is to take you through the process of generating an
invoice you can send to your customers. Invopop is very flexible, so for this
example we assuming the following conditions:

- We're in Spain, although the steps are essentially the same anywhere.

- We have the basic information about the invoice: date, supplier, customer,
  items, and the tax type to apply to each.

- Our invoices do _not_ already have a sequential code, but we want one that
  looks like `TEST2201001`.

- Customers require an Electronic invoice alongside a PDF.

- We want an email copy of our invoice.

You don't need to be a developer to use this guide, but you will need to have a
bit of experience using a command terminal and know how to create a text file.
For sending requests to the server we use the "curl" command, included with most
operating systems. You might however find it easier to use a visual tool for
sending HTTP requests like [Postman](https://www.postman.com/).

We assume here that you've already followed the steps in the
[Authentication](/introduction/authentication) guide, and have an access token
ready to use.

To give you a heads up, these are the stages we'll be going through:

- Create a new series

- Define a set of integrations

- Build a new workflow that uses the integrations

- Upload a document

- Create a Job

- Extract the results

Let's get started.

## Define a Series

Most tax jurisdictions require invoices to contain a sequential or consecutive
code that allows inspectors to visually confirm the order of your invoices and
check for any gaps. Some countries take this very seriously, and may impose
penalities if not done properly.

Generating sequential numbers reliably, especially in a distributed system, is
actually quite a tough technical challenge. Fortunately at Invopop we've tried
to hide away the complexity with a simple interface.

Inside the [Invopop Console](https://console.invopop.com):

1. Enter the **Series** section on the side menu.

2. Tap the "**New Series**" button.

3. In **Name** enter "Test Series".

4. In **Prefix** enter "TEST22".

5. In **Padding**, leave as `5`.

6. In **Start Number**, enter `1000`.

7. Notice that the **Preview** box shows `TEST2201000`, and tap the "**Save**"
   button.

8. The new series should now appear in the list.

In the next section, we'll figure out how to use this new sequence inside an
integration.

## Create Integrations

An integration defines a single operation that should happen to a document sent
to Invopop. On its own, an integration can't do anything until it is added to a
workflow and executed via a job, which we'll go through in the following
sections. First however we need to create integrations for the following three
key objectives:

1. Assign a sequential code (series) to an invoice.

2. Generate an Electronic Invoice, for Spain we'll use FacturaE XML format.

3. Generate a PDF.

4. Send the complete PDF and electronic invoice via email.

Each step is pretty simple, but we've split them into the following subsections
for clarity.

### Series

1. Enter the **Integrations** section.

2. Tap "**New Integration**".

3. From the list of providers, click **Series Enumerator**.

4. The **Name** should already be set to "Series Enumerator".

5. Tap "**Edit configuration**".

6. In the popup dialog, pick the "Test Series" option representing series we
   created in the last section.

7. Check the "Close draft envelopes automatically after adding sequence code"
   checkbox.

8. Tap "**Save**", you should see the configuration field is filled in with some
   JSON.

9. Tap "**Save**" to create the new integration.

The integration will now appear in the list.

### FacturaE

From inside the **Integrations** section:

1. Tap "**New Integration**".

2. Select **FacturaE** from the list of providers.

3. Click "**Edit configuration**".

4. Read through and check the "Accept Legal Terms and Conditions" checkbox.

5. Tap "**Save**".

6. Tap "**Save**" again to persist and close this new integration.

There should now be a FacturaE integration available in the list.

### PDF

Again from the **Integrations** section:

1. Tap "**New Integration**".

2. Select **PDF Generator** from the list.

3. Tap "**Edit configuration**".

4. Choose a language for the invoices and upload a company logo if you have one
   to hand.

5. Tap "**Save**".

6. Click "**Save**" again to store the PDF generator integration.

After that, there will be a PDF Generator integration alongside the others.

### Email

Finally, we need to configure sending an email from the **Integrations**
section:

1.Tap "**New Integration**".

2.Select **Send to Email**.

3. Click "**Edit configuration**".

4. Introduce a destination in the "To:" or "BCC:" fields by typing the address
   either in regular or "mailbox" format. (mailbox format includes name, e.g.
   `John Smith <john.smith@example.com>`).

5. Hit the enter key to add the address to the lists.

6. Optionally tap the "Automatically add invoice customers" checkbox if you'd
   like to send copies of emails to customers defined in invoices.

7. Tap "**Save**".

8. Tap "**Save**" again to save this new email integration.

Having completed all these steps, you should now have 4 different integrations
available to combine together into a single workflow.

## Define the Workflow

A workflow in Invopop is essentially a list of integrations that will be
executed one-by-one for an incoming job. You can define as many workflows as you
need with different combinations of integrations. For this example we're going
to continue what we started for the invoicing scenario.

1.Head to the **Workflows** section.

2.Tap "**New Workflow**.

3. Use the Name field to give this new workflow and easy way to be identified,
   like "Process Invoice".

4. In the steps section, tap the "**+**" button.

5. Tap the **Series Enumerator** integration.

6. It'll be added to the list of steps.

7. Repeat steps 4\. to 6\. for the remaining integrations:

   - FacturaE
   - PDF Generator
   - Send to Email

8. Tap the "**Save**" button.

Congratulations! You just created a new workflow. Notice the "**ID:**" field,
this is the identifier we'll need later to be able to use this workflow from the
terminal or command line.

## Upload a Document

We've prepared a workflow with a set of integrations to process and convert
invoices. Our next step is to upload a document to be processed by the workflow
and extract the results.

At Invopop we use [GOBL](https://gobl.org) as our base format. It's been purpose
built (by us) to make it easy to create business documents using JSON and
contain everything needed to be globally compatible.

If you haven't had chance to read the [GOBL Docs](https://docs.gobl.org), there
are two basic concepts that are important to understand:

1.A **GOBL Document** represents a data structure containing a payload; an
invoice, message, contact details, or some other unit of business data, defined
using a JSON Schema that GOBL understands.

2.A **GOBL Envelope** is a wrapper around a GOBL Document that adds meta-data
like a digest and digital signatures.

At Invopop, we only ever store documents which are contained inside a GOBL
Envelope. This is important as it means we can verify the contents and ensure no
changes have been made. Most interfaces and APIs in Invopop however will
automatically wrap documents inside envelopes, so you don't need to worry about
it when uploading, but you will need to take this into account when downloading.

In the next steps we're going to need a sample _partial_ GOBL Invoice document
to upload, here's one we created earlier:

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://gobl.org/draft-0/bill/invoice",
  "currency": "EUR",
  "issue_date": "2022-03-29",
  "supplier": {
    "tax_id": {
      "country": "ES",
      "code": "B28774008"
    },
    "name": "Biz Espa√±a S.L.",
    "emails": [
      {
        "addr": "billing@bizspain.es"
      }
    ],
    "addresses": [
      {
        "num": "42",
        "street": "Calle Pradillo",
        "locality": "Madrid",
        "region": "Madrid",
        "code": "28002",
        "country": "ES"
      }
    ]
  },
  "customer": {
    "tax_id": {
      "country": "ES",
      "code": "B33105842"
    },
    "name": "Customer Spain S.L.",
    "emails": [
      {
        "addr": "sam@customer.com"
      }
    ],
    "addresses": [
      {
        "num": "10",
        "street": "Calle Mayor",
        "locality": "Madrid",
        "region": "Madrid",
        "code": "28003",
        "country": "ES"
      }
    ]
  },
  "lines": [
    {
      "quantity": 50,
      "item": {
        "name": "Promotional mug",
        "price": "16.00"
      },
      "taxes": [
        {
          "cat": "VAT",
          "rate": "standard"
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

The most important bits of data to take away from this document are the:

- JSON schema that identifies the GOBL Invoice document type,

- currency and issue date,

- supplier and customer, with their "tax id", and,

- lines of items of a given quantity and price to which VAT at a "standard" rate
  needs to be applied.

Note we used the word _partial_ earlier to describe this document. It's not a
complete and valid GOBL document as it doesn't contain important details like
the invoice code or tax totals. We call these **draft** documents and there is a
specific property in the header of GOBL Envelopes that indicates we're working
with a draft. As we'll see shortly, once uploaded to Invopop, the API and
workflow we created earlier will automatically assign an invoice code and make
the required calculations so it can be finalized.

For more details on creating Invoices, see the
[GOBL Documentation Site](https://docs.gobl.org). You'll find more guides there
on all the different options and configurations available for invoices,
including ways you can build complete GOBL Envelopes with signatures.

Let's upload this document to Invopop:

1.Copy and paste the JSON above into you favorite text editor.

2.Save the JSON into a file named `invoice.json` in a temporary folder you can
easily find from the command line (`Downloads` is usually a safe bet).

3. Open the Terminal or command line, and enter the temporary directory, e.g.
   `cd ~/Downloads`.

4. Upload the document using the following Curl command:

```
curl -H "Authorization: Bearer $INVOPOP_TOKEN" -X POST -F data=@invoice.json https://api.invopop.com/silo/v1/entries | jq .
```

The response back from the server will be similar to the following:

```json
{
  "id": "181ecd5a-f242-11ec-82f1-0242ac150010",
  "created_at": "2022-06-22T15:43:42.814Z",
  "updated_at": "2022-06-22T15:43:42.814Z",
  "env_schema": "https://gobl.org/draft-0/envelope",
  "doc_schema": "https://gobl.org/draft-0/bill/invoice",
  "digest": {
    "alg": "sha256",
    "val": "ca93946485519b3aadf82de2f1654523c98f8afdf90da28ea1d0067a59d1341a"
  },
  "draft": true,
  "data": {
    "$schema": "https://gobl.org/draft-0/envelope",
    "head": {
      "uuid": "181ecd5a-f242-11ec-82f1-0242ac150010",
      "dig": {
        "alg": "sha256",
        "val": "ca93946485519b3aadf82de2f1654523c98f8afdf90da28ea1d0067a59d1341a"
      },
      "draft": true
    },
    "doc": {
      "$schema": "https://gobl.org/draft-0/bill/invoice",
      "code": "",
      "currency": "EUR",
      "issue_date": "2022-03-29",
      "supplier": {
        "tax_id": {
          "country": "ES",
          "code": "B28774008"
        },
        "name": "Biz Espa√±a S.L.",
        "addresses": [
          {
            "num": "42",
            "street": "Calle Pradillo",
            "locality": "Madrid",
            "region": "Madrid",
            "code": "28002",
            "country": "ES"
          }
        ],
        "emails": [
          {
            "addr": "billing@bizspain.es"
          }
        ]
      },
      "customer": {
        "tax_id": {
          "country": "ES",
          "code": "B33105842"
        },
        "name": "Customer Spain S.L.",
        "addresses": [
          {
            "num": "10",
            "street": "Calle Mayor",
            "locality": "Madrid",
            "region": "Madrid",
            "code": "28003",
            "country": "ES"
          }
        ],
        "emails": [
          {
            "addr": "sam@customer.com"
          }
        ]
      },
      "lines": [
        {
          "i": 1,
          "quantity": "50",
          "item": {
            "name": "Promotional mug",
            "price": "16.00"
          },
          "sum": "800.00",
          "taxes": [
            {
              "cat": "VAT",
              "rate": "standard",
              "percent": "21.0%"
            }
          ],
          "total": "800.00"
        }
      ],
      "totals": {
        "sum": "800.00",
        "total": "800.00",
        "taxes": {
          "categories": [
            {
              "code": "VAT",
              "rates": [
                {
                  "key": "standard",
                  "base": "800.00",
                  "percent": "21.0%",
                  "amount": "168.00"
                }
              ],
              "base": "800.00",
              "amount": "168.00"
            }
          ],
          "sum": "168.00"
        },
        "tax": "168.00",
        "total_with_tax": "968.00",
        "payable": "968.00"
      }
    },
    "sigs": []
  }
}
```

Let's go over some of the important points in that response:

- everything is wrapped inside a response containing the data and copies of key
  fields like the schemas, digest, and draft status,

- there is an `id` property that uniquely identifies this entry,

- the `data` property includes a complete GOBL Envelope with the invoice,

- the invoice has now been completed with all the totals and tax calculations,
  and,

- the invoice's `code` field is still empty.

<Warning>
  we don't recommend making HTTP `POST` calls like in this example as they do
  not include an ID that would make the request
  [idempotent](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Idempotence). This is fine for
  testing, but in production environments, you should pre-assign a UUID (v1) to
  the request and include it in the path in a `PUT` call. This way, if for some
  reason the request gets repeated, you'll only have one copy.
</Warning>

## Create a Job

Now for the exciting part. But first, let's recap what we have:

- A set of integrations to execute.

- A workflow that defines which integrations to use, with an ID.

- An envelope ID generated in the last request when we uploaded the Invoice.

Let's put all these together and execute a job. Here's the command to perform
from the terminal and don't forget to update the IDs with your values that were
generated for the workflow and envelope:

```bash
curl -H "Authorization: Bearer $INVOPOP_TOKEN" -X POST -F workflow_id=0d9602ab-a2e2-413c-adf0-7abf4dd25c12 -F envelope_id=181ecd5a-f242-11ec-82f1-0242ac150010 "https://api.invopop.com/transform/v1/jobs?wait=30" | jq .
```

```json
{
  "id": "a42886a8-f23e-11ec-9be8-0242ac150010",
  "created_at": "2022-06-22T15:18:59.770Z",
  "updated_at": "2022-06-22T15:23:16.256Z",
  "envelope_id": "181ecd5a-f242-11ec-82f1-0242ac150010",
  "workflow_id": "0d9602ab-a2e2-413c-adf0-7abf4dd25c12",
  "status": "OK",
  "completed_at": "2022-06-22T15:23:16.256Z",
  "intents": [
    {
      "id": "a979ec1a-cd78-4ad0-bae6-d22df4b246ac",
      "created_at": "2022-06-22T15:18:59.821Z",
      "updated_at": "2022-06-22T15:19:00.064Z",
      "integration_id": "4497eab3-5a47-4e34-9196-3d1cce237aff",
      "events": [
        {
          "index": 1,
          "status": "RUN",
          "at": "2022-06-22T15:18:59.832Z"
        },
        {
          "index": 2,
          "status": "OK",
          "at": "2022-06-22T15:19:00.064Z"
        }
      ],
      "completed": true
    },
    {
      "id": "483e20b0-4e9a-4fb3-bd76-9a1dabbc6c8f",
      "created_at": "2022-06-22T15:19:00.076Z",
      "updated_at": "2022-06-22T15:19:00.450Z",
      "integration_id": "65018ad7-2cd9-4284-a5d5-974dd541f1f9",
      "events": [
        {
          "index": 1,
          "status": "RUN",
          "at": "2022-06-22T15:19:00.094Z"
        },
        {
          "index": 2,
          "status": "OK",
          "at": "2022-06-22T15:19:00.450Z"
        }
      ],
      "completed": true
    },
    {
      "id": "655021e4-c941-4179-910b-5ba5e2ac439a",
      "created_at": "2022-06-22T15:19:00.456Z",
      "updated_at": "2022-06-22T15:19:01.054Z",
      "integration_id": "2b16201f-6f38-4a0e-bd24-5e1e737b9305",
      "events": [
        {
          "index": 1,
          "status": "RUN",
          "at": "2022-06-22T15:19:00.464Z"
        },
        {
          "index": 2,
          "status": "OK",
          "at": "2022-06-22T15:19:01.053Z"
        }
      ],
      "completed": true
    },
    {
      "id": "f5c90cb2-03f1-494e-8a4c-98e6c535824a",
      "created_at": "2022-06-22T15:19:01.059Z",
      "updated_at": "2022-06-22T15:23:16.250Z",
      "integration_id": "b3440891-067f-47c4-b6b8-6afc97d0be86",
      "events": [
        {
          "index": 1,
          "status": "RUN",
          "at": "2022-06-22T15:19:01.068Z"
        },
        {
          "index": 2,
          "status": "OK",
          "at": "2022-06-22T15:19:01.083Z"
        }
      ],
      "completed": true
    }
  ],
  "envelope": {
    "$schema": "https://gobl.org/draft-0/envelope",
    "head": {
      "uuid": "181ecd5a-f242-11ec-82f1-0242ac150010",
      "dig": {
        "alg": "sha256",
        "val": "a9e2e745f095382db4814732d17ca936355a2e684371e5e9bcbbb6bfd24e61f4"
      }
    },
    "doc": {
      "$schema": "https://gobl.org/draft-0/bill/invoice",
      "code": "INV0200105",
      "currency": "EUR",
      "issue_date": "2022-03-29",
      "supplier": {
        "tax_id": {
          "country": "ES",
          "code": "B28774008"
        },
        "name": "Biz Espa√±a S.L.",
        "addresses": [
          {
            "num": "42",
            "street": "Calle Pradillo",
            "locality": "Madrid",
            "region": "Madrid",
            "code": "28002",
            "country": "ES"
          }
        ],
        "emails": [
          {
            "addr": "billing@bizspain.es"
          }
        ]
      },
      "customer": {
        "tax_id": {
          "country": "ES",
          "code": "B33105842"
        },
        "name": "Customer Spain S.L.",
        "addresses": [
          {
            "num": "10",
            "street": "Calle Mayor",
            "locality": "Madrid",
            "region": "Madrid",
            "code": "28003",
            "country": "ES"
          }
        ],
        "emails": [
          {
            "addr": "sam@customer.com"
          }
        ]
      },
      "lines": [
        {
          "i": 1,
          "quantity": "50",
          "item": {
            "name": "Promotional mug",
            "price": "16.00"
          },
          "sum": "800.00",
          "taxes": [
            {
              "cat": "VAT",
              "rate": "standard",
              "percent": "21.0%"
            }
          ],
          "total": "800.00"
        }
      ],
      "totals": {
        "sum": "800.00",
        "total": "800.00",
        "taxes": {
          "categories": [
            {
              "code": "VAT",
              "rates": [
                {
                  "key": "standard",
                  "base": "800.00",
                  "percent": "21.0%",
                  "amount": "168.00"
                }
              ],
              "base": "800.00",
              "amount": "168.00"
            }
          ],
          "sum": "168.00"
        },
        "tax": "168.00",
        "total_with_tax": "968.00",
        "payable": "968.00"
      }
    },
    "sigs": [
      "eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6Ijk1Nzg1MDY1LWJkN2YtNGY4MC1iYzc4LTQ3NTI2ZmZiODcxYiJ9.eyJ1dWlkIjoiZWMwNDkzODYtZjIyMC0xMWVjLWJlOGYtMDI0MmFjMTUwMDEwIiwiZGlnIjp7ImFsZyI6InNoYTI1NiIsInZhbCI6ImE5ZTJlNzQ1ZjA5NTM4MmRiNDgxNDczMmQxN2NhOTM2MzU1YTJlNjg0MzcxZTVlOWJjYmJiNmJmZDI0ZTYxZjQifX0.dexgs6CRQG-GgN-5X4hINOPoZFv0IhUH4XIsX08YztT2j-ndL9R3je7BjydNot9yVKd8BRsnDK-4Xe4JIr2KDA"
    ]
  },
  "attachments": [
    {
      "id": "483e20b0-4e9a-4fb3-bd76-9a1dabbc6c8f",
      "name": "facturae-invoice.xml",
      "hash": "70ffaede94d3466dbf23ddc8e0f69476de54106606f9f30938f9f44526600a8e",
      "mime": "text/xml; charset=utf-8",
      "size": 10941,
      "url": "https://silo.invopop.com/7ASThvIgEey-jwJCrBUAEA/SD4gsE6aT7O9dpodq7xsjw/facturae-invoice.xml?h=70ffaede94d3466d"
    },
    {
      "id": "655021e4-c941-4179-910b-5ba5e2ac439a",
      "name": "invoice.pdf",
      "hash": "fb9817cb640c2e0e26426fb3e34b868e64acafe1aab193a6c4ca109fbd43e230",
      "mime": "application/pdf",
      "size": 70898,
      "url": "https://silo.invopop.com/7ASThvIgEey-jwJCrBUAEA/ZVAh5MlBQXmRC1ul4qxDmg/invoice.pdf?h=fb9817cb640c2e0e"
    }
  ]
}
```

There is a lot of JSON data there, but let's break it down into the key bits of
data:

- Everything is wrapped inside a "Job" object with the key fields like
  `workflow_id` and `envelope_id`.

- Job `status` shows `OK` indicating that this job has been completed
  successfully.

- The `intents` list describes all the steps the job has gone through for each
  of the connectors defined in the workflow.

- `envelope` contains a copy of the invoice we uploaded earlier except it has
  now been assigned a code, and is no longer a draft.

- `attachments` includes a list of links to all the files that have been
  generated for the envelope: an XML FacturaE document, and a single pdf.

## Download the Results

Having completed a job, we can view the results in the
[Invopop Console](https://console.invopop.com) or download the results directly
based on the previous response. Take a look at the `attachments` attribute. Each
attachment has a URL attribute that we can use to download the contents and then
open the file:

```bash
curl "https://silo.invopop.com/7ASThvIgEey-jwJCrBUAEA/ZVAh5MlBQXmRC1ul4qxDmg/invoice.pdf?h=fb9817cb640c2e0e" > invoice.pdf
open invoice.pdf
```

You can also download the attachment directly in your browser by copying and
pasting the URL.
