---
title: "Idempotency"
description: "Ensuring API requests are safe."
---

Idempotence in the context of Web APIs refers to operations which when repeated
provide exactly the same result. In practical terms, if my intention is to
create a single item using a remote API and my first attempt provides a network
error response, I need to know that when I retry I will not end up creating two
or more identical items.

At Invopop, we take this very seriously and have designed support for
idempotency in all API calls.

REST actions like `GET` and `DELETE` are inherently idempotent, fetching or
deleting the same item twice will simply result result in the same response.

Update actions, such as `PATCH` are also usually idempotent. Duplicating calls
may be inefficient, but we've made sure that in our API update actions are safe
to be repeated.

Create actions, like `POST` or `PUT` however require additional gurantees to
ensure data will not be duplicated. The Invopop APIs handle these scenarios by
requiring that every model and thus every incoming operation includes an `id`
field in either UUIDv1 or UUIDv4 string format. If the same create request is
made twice with the same ID, _and assuming none of the fields have changed_, the
second request will simply return the same response as the first.

If a create request is made with an existing ID and a different payload, the api
will respond with a `409 Conflict` response, allowing you to double check what
might have gone wrong. If the data changes, the request is not idempotent!

Many APIs we've seen offer the ability to provide something like an
`Idempotency-Key` in the header. This works, but adds additional complication to
the client, and we felt for our use could more easily be handled by the ID
fields typically included in models.
